.TH RAMROOT.CONF 5 "2025-12-16" "ramroot 2.0.3" "ramroot.conf manual"
.SH NAME
ramroot.conf - ramroot initcpio hook configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/ramroot.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is an ash shell script.  A default config file can be viewed at
\fI/usr/lib/ramroot/ramroot.conf\fR.
.PP
All \fIUUID\fR (or \fIPARTUUID\fR) values must include the proper
\fIUUID=\fR prefix.  A \fImountpath\fR is an absolute mount path (as
given in \fI/etc/fstab\fR).  Every size is a whole number of
\fImebibytes\fR with \fIno suffix\fR.
.PP
\fBmkinitcpio -P\fR must be run after making changes to
\fI/etc/ramroot.conf\fR.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
\fBmounts_zram\fR
Additional mounts loaded to zram during initramfs.  A mount consists of a
\fIUUID\fR separated from a \fImountpath\fR by a colon.  Multiple mounts are
separated by spaces or newlines.
.TP
\fBmounts_null\fR
Mounts specifically ignored by ramroot.  A \fIUUID\fR is optional for these
mounts.  These mounts will be commented out in \fI/etc/fstab\fR when ramroot
active.
.TP
\fBps_default\fR
Default zram y/n prompt value.  Valid values are \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR.
.TP
\fBps_timeout\fR
Boot prompt timeout, positive integer between 1 and 32.
.TP
\fBram_min\fR
Minimum amount of free ram required.
.TP
\fBzram_min\fR
Minimum amount of free zram required.  If both this and \fBram_min\fR cannot be
satisfied, the boot prompt automatically selects \fIno\fR.
.TP
\fBram_pref\fR
Preferred amount of free ram.  If both \fBram_min\fR and \fBzram_min\fR are
satisfied, additional memory is allocated to ram up to this preferred ram
value.
.TP
\fBzram_max\fR
Maximum amount of free zram to create.  Once \fBram_pref\fR is satisfied, the
amount of free zram is further extended to \fBzram_max\fR.
.PP
All remaining memory is allocated towards ram.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBramroot\fR(8), <\fBhttps://github.com/arcmags/ramroot/\fR>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3
or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. This is free software: you are
free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by law.
