.TH RAMROOT 8 "November 2017" "ramroot 1.1.5" "Ramroot Manual"
.SH NAME
ramroot \- load root filesystem entirely to RAM during boot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ramroot
<\fIACTION\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRamroot\fR can enable and disable the pre\-userspace loading of the
\fIroot\fR (and \fI/boot\fR, if it exists) filesystem to RAM during
system boot.
.PP
When \fBramroot\fR is enabled, during the initial phase of boot
the amount of detected RAM on the computer along with the size the
root filesystem to be copied is shown on the screen.  If there is at
least 500MB more RAM than the size of the filesystem, the user will
be prompted to load the root filesystem to RAM.
(Confirmation prompt defaults to yes with a 15 second timeout.)
.PP
The size of the \fBzram\fR partition created is determined by taking
the size of the root filesystem plus half of the extra available
RAM (to a maximum of 6GB).
.PP
Other partitions will not be copied to RAM or mounted by default.
Usage of the \fB\-F\fR option can be used to mount additional
partitions defined in \fI/etc/fstab\fR.
.SH ACTIONS
Action performed by ramroot; one must be specified.
.PP
.TP
\fBdisable\fR
.br
Remove \fBramroot\fR from \fI/etc/mkinitcpio.conf\fR HOOKS.
Remove \fBext4\fR and \fBzram\fR from \fI/etc/mkinitcpio.conf\fR MODULES.
Rebuild linux cpio boot image.
.TP
\fBenable\fR
.br
Rebuild build and runtime hooks in \fI/usr/lib/initcpio\fR.
Add \fBramroot\fR to \fI/etc/mkinitcpio.conf\fR HOOKS.
Add \fBext4\fR and \fBzram\fR to \fI/etc/mkinitcpio.conf\fR MODULES.
Rebuild linux cpio boot image.
.TP
\fBremove\fR
.br
Disable \fBramroot\fR.  Remove build and runtime hooks from
\fI/usr/lib/initcpio\fR.
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
.br
Print \fBramroot\fR status to screen.
Return exit status 2 if not enabled.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-boot\fR <\fIUUID\fR>
Specify \fI/boot\fR partition UUID to use when building hooks.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-dryrun\fR
Execute action without making any changes.  Useful for debugging
or viewing changes in \fI~/.cache/ramroot\fR before enabling.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fstab\fR
Mount all partitions (other than \fIroot\fR and \fI/boot\fR) in
\fI/etc/fstab\fR normally.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-keep\fR
Keep copies of new build and runtime hooks in \fI~/.cache/ramroot\fR.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-no\fR
Change startup prompt default to not load filesystem to RAM.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR <\fIUUID\fR>
Specify \fIroot\fR partion UUID to use when building hooks; required if
unable to detect UUID via \fBlsblk\fR or \fI/etc/fstab\fR.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECONDS\fR
Set RAM boot prompt timeout (default=15).
.SH NOTES
The filesystem transfer to RAM can take several minutes.  As soon as
the boot process is complete, the boot media can be safely removed.
.PP
All changes to files in RAM are completely lost once the
computer is reboot.  To update the system and edit files, boot
the device without transferring the filesystem to RAM.
.PP
Keep a clean and trimmed down system to maintain faster RAM sync times.
Remove old packages and cached files after system
upgrades to keep the size of the root filesystem down.
Consider installing fewer packages if you intend on loading
to RAM often.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Chris Magyar.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Official ramroot source: <https://github.com/arcmags/ramroot/>
