.TH RAMROOT.CONF 5 "2021-08-25" "ramroot 2.0.2" "ramroot.conf manual"
.SH NAME
ramroot.conf - ramroot initcpio hook configuration file
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/ramroot.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is an ash shell script.  Many common bash builtins are not
available here and the syntax tends to be a bit stricter.  The fallback
config file can be viewed at \fI/usr/lib/ramroot/ramroot.conf\fR.
.PP
After any changes are made to \fI/etc/ramroot.conf\fR, a user must
execute \fBramroot -E\fR or \fBmkinitcpio -P\fR in order for those
changes to be built into a new initramfs image.
.PP
All \fIUUID\fR (or \fIPARTUUID\fR) values must include the proper
\fIUUID=\fR prefix.  A \fImountpath\fR is an absolute mount path (as
given in \fI/etc/fstab\fR).  Every size is a whole number of
\fImebibytes\fR with \fIno suffix\fR.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
\fBmounts_zram\fR
Defines additional mounts to load to zram during initramfs.  A mount
consists of the \fIUUID\fR separated from the \fImountpath\fR by a
colon.  Multiple mounts are separated by spaces or newlines.
.TP
\fBmounts_null\fR
Defines mounts to specifically ignore by ramroot.  The \fIUUID\fR
is optional for these mounts.  These will not be loaded to zram or
mounted normally.  If \fI/\fR is specified in \fBmounts_null\fR,
ramroot will skip loading altogether.
.TP
\fBps_default\fR
Default zram y/n prompt value.  Valid values are \fIyes\fR or \fIno\fR.
.TP
\fBps_timeout\fR
Boot prompt timeout, positive integer between 1 and 33.  After this
many seconds, the zram y/n prompt will assume the
\fBps_default\fR value.
.TP
\fBram_min\fR
Minimum amount of free ram required.
.TP
\fBzram_min\fR
Minimum amount of free zram required.  If both this and
\fBram_min\fR cannot be satisfied, the boot prompt automatically
selects \fIno\fR.
.TP
\fBram_pref\fR
Preferred amount of free ram.  If both \fBram_min\fR and
\fBzram_min\fR are satisfied, additional memory is allocated to ram
up to this preferred ram value.
.TP
\fBzram_max\fR
Maximum amount of free zram to create.  Once \fBram_pref\fR is
satisfied, the amount of free zram is further extended
to \fBzram_max\fR.
.PP
All remaining memory is allocated towards ram.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBramroot\fR(8), <\fBhttps://github.com/arcmags/ramroot/\fR>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Chris Magyar.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017 Free Software Foundation, Inc. License GPLv3+:
GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
